Welcome back.
Let's implement one last feature in our hash table here.
I want to create something called KIIS and keys allows us to iterate or loop through all the keys of
our hash table.
In this case grapes and apples and let's add a few more just for fun.
So we see what's going on.
That oranges and we don't like them too much so we're only going to add two of them.
Now if we run KIIS Ideally it's going to iterate and spit out grapes apples and oranges for us to see
what we need to go shopping for.
How would we go about building this.
Well because we're going to do some sort of looping.
I'm going to start off by creating a constant let's call it teaser array.
And this is going to be an empty array within here.
We're going to loop so for LeT I call 0
and as long as I is going to be less and this data length
we're going to increment by end here we're saying we want to loop through all 50 items spaces all the
shelfs one by one.
We're going to loop through them.
Yep that's a lot of iterations.
And if in the shelf there is some sort of data.
If it's not undefined completely empty and there is something valuable for us that we want to look.
Because remember we allocate 50 spaces on the shelf but we've only placed 3 items or three data points
on that.
So if there is something in that memory space in that case we can just say Kuzari dot push this dot
data and we grab the index.
So the first IRA or the array that we're at right here.
And then we want to grab apples right.
Well if I do zero here and now hit run what we have to return something.
Let's return here.
The key sorry at the end of all this.
So after all the loops we're going to simply say return keys array fi run this I get grapes apples and
oranges.
That's fantastic.
But I just wanted grapes apples and oranges to see what's going on here.
Let's console log this dot data high which is what we're doing here while we're pushing and if I run
this we see that we get a raise within the array because remember we have one massive array.
And each time we create a new shelf space we have to have a new array that we create and we push into
that.
So a little bit of a gotcha here.
We have to say
zero which removes the odd or re.
And now a zero to grab the first index of this array.
So if we add a now there zero in there to access the first index of the array we click run.
Look at that.
We get grapes apples and oranges.
Well done.
We've just implemented a hash table.
And you may have noticed something a downside of hash tables.
We had to loop here right.
We had a for loop looping through the entire memory space in order to find our keys.
That was so much easier with the race with the raise we would have had just three items and we would
have looped over three times instead.
Here we looped over 50 times.
Imagine if we had 500.
That's even more.
How exciting is this.
We're starting to learn how things work underneath the hood so that now we have an idea of hmm maybe
if we're using this type of method objects might not be the best idea.
And that's one drawback of objects or hash tables in javascript.
We can use something like for in loops to loop over items in an object which again is very very slow.
And as you might realize there's no guaranteed order every time we're just adding something to our address.
But when we grab items from the address we just go from 0 to 50 even though the items are just randomly
placed in different shelves.
But I hope now you actually get to see how it works.
We're putting items randomly in a shelf but when we retrieve them they are all on order.
And that's why coding things out even though you most likely won't get this asked in an interview.
Knowing how things work allows you to talk about them intelligently and I hope this exercise has done
that for you.
I'll leave this for you to play around with and perhaps add different methods like values that grabs
the values instead of the keys.
But for now let's finalize our talk of hash tables by comparing them to race.